docs/source/bash.rst, before:

Bash Shell Helpers
==================

Who is this document for?
-------------------------

This is for someone using Jug on many computers, where there is a 
dedicated head node. These scripts help launch, monitor, and terminate
jug on all of the slave nodes. They should be used with caution, as they
are not heavily tested and may need to be modified for your setup. 

Terms used in this document
---------------------------

head node
  Computer that does not perform heavy computation locally. Instead it is
  in charge of managing and monitoring jug on other computers
slave/client
  Interchangable terms for this doc. Computers that are connected to the 
  head node (typically via an SSH connection) and will be performing 
  computation. 
jug instance / jug executor
  A single jug process, typically running on a slave computer

What scripts are available? 
---------------------------
jug
  The normal jug executable
jugrun
  Starts jug executables on non-head machines. The number of executables
  started on each client machine should be configured to match the 
  hardware of each client machine e.g. for 12 hardware threads, it may
  be reasonable to run 10 instances of jug
jugstatus
  Monitors jug execution by occasionally calling 'jug status'
jughalt
  Stops all jug executors on all slave computers
juglog
  Outputs a log of jug run/halt/stop commands
jugoutput
  If your jug tasks print to stdout or stderr, this collects all 
  of that content from each remote machine ane prints it out. 
  Note that this command will likely need to be configured for 
  your computer

Installing these scripts
------------------------

You need to 1) create an alias for all of the jug* commands in your
.bash_profile 2) create a workers.iplist file and 3) create a 
.waitonjug executable and 4) create a run_workers.sh script. 

All of these are covered here. Also note, these scripts require 
pssh

**Creating command aliases**

::
  local ~$ ssh myserver
  myserver ~$ nano .bash_profile
  # Nano opens a text editor and I paste the following at 
  # the top (minus the hash signs) 
  #
  #alias pssh='pssh -i -h workers.iplist '
  #alias jugstatus='watch -n 10 -d jug status --cache benchmark_jug.py'
  #alias jugrun='echo "`date`: Start" >> .juglog; screen -d -m -S jugwatcher sh ~/.waitonjug; pssh screen -d -S jug -m sh run_workers.sh'
  #alias jugoutput='pssh cat /mnt/localhd/.jug*'
  #alias jughalt='echo "`date`: Halt ">> .juglog; screen -S jugwatcher -X quit;  pssh pkill jug;'
  #alias juglog='cat ~/.juglog'
  #
  # Now we need to tell the server to 'reload' .bash_profile 
  myserver ~$ source .bash_profile
  # Now type 'jug' and hit tab a few times to see the following
  myserver ~$ jug
  jug    jughalt    juglog     jugoutput  jugrun     jugstatus  

**Creating workers.iplist**
This is pretty simple, just create a file called workers.iplist and 
insert something like this to identify all of your slave computers

::
  10.0.2.2
  10.0.2.4
  10.0.2.5
  10.0.2.6
  10.0.2.7


**Creating .waitonjug executable**
Create a new file called .waitonjug and insert the following

::
 #!/bin/sh

 echo "Waiting..."
 jug sleep-until benchmark_jug.py
 echo "`date`: Completed" >> ~/.juglog
 echo "Complete, returning"

Then save the file and make it executable by typing `chmod a+x .waitonjug`. 

**Creating run_workers.sh**
Create a new file called run_workers.sh and paste the following, 
but *be sure to modify the variable!* This script assumes that
all slave machines can run the same number of jug processes without 
being overloaded. I would generally recommend setting the number of 
jug processes to be slightly lower than the total number of hardware
threads your slave machine can support. For example, each of my 
slave machines has 12 hardware threads (6 cores, 2 threads each), 
so I've set to run 10 jug processes per slave machine

::

    #!/bin/sh

    JUG_PROCESSES_PER_WORKER=10

    rm /mnt/localhd/.jug*
    for i in {1..${JUG_PROCESSES_PER_WORKER}}
    do
        jug execute benchmark_jug.py > /mnt/localhd/.jug$i.out 2> /mnt/localhd/.jug$i.err &
    done
    wait

After creating run_workers.sh, don't forget to make it 
executable using `chmod a+x run_workers.sh`

Understanding the scripts
-------------------------

**pssh**
Pssh is required for all of these scripts. It allows me to 
broadcast one command to multiple computers and receive the 
reply. It makes an ssh connection to each computer, executes
the command, and aggregates the replies. Pssh is what reads 
in the workers.iplist

**jugstatus**
This uses the watch command to call 'jug status' every ten seconds

**jugrun**
This first posts log entry, then sets up what I call a 'watcher',
which is a tiny executable that runs in the background on the host
computer (actually, it runs inside of a detached screen session)
and waits on jug to complete the 'jugrun' command. If you peek
inside the .waitonjug code you will see that this 'wait on jug' 
logic is nothing more than 1) use jug's sleep-until 2) create 
log message indicating that the job is complete. 

The actual business logic of jugrun is to use pssh to tell each
slave computer to execute the run_workers.sh script. The 
run_workers script runs on each slave computer, and launches 
all the instances of jug. It also waits on them to be terminated
(e.g. killed by either jug completing or a call to jughalt). It
waits because if the script terminates before the child processes
(e.g. the instances of jug) then bad things will happen

**jughalt**
Creates a log message about halting, terminates the .waitonjug 
detached screen so that we don't have anyone waiting for the 
job to complete, and then uses pssh to issue a command to all 
slave machines to kill all jug processes. The pkill command is 
used to automatically find and kill and processes names *jug*. 
Once the jug processes die then the run_worker.sh scripts will 
automatically terminate

**juglog**
Outputs the contents of the log file from the run/halt/complete. 
Simple file, can be used with other options e.g. `tail -f ~/.juglog`

**jugoutput**
*This will likely need to be modified for your use*. In my setup, 
all files under /home/myuser/ are shared via NFS. This means that 
any output files placed in my home directory can have problems as 
multiple jug processes are writing to the same file and NFS is 
trying to share that file across multiple machines. My solution was
to output jug-process-specific files into a directory that is not
shared by NFS, specifically /mnt/localhd on each computer. The 
jugoutput command uses pssh to collect all of these log files
and print them to me on the head node. Useful for monitoring 
progress of individual jug tasks e.g. a particularly long running
method call.

Commit message:

Added some critical extra details
jugrun will need to be modified because it's using 
my (installation-specific) /mnt/localhd

docs/source/bash.rst, after:

Bash Shell Helpers
==================

Who is this document for?
-------------------------

This is for someone using Jug on many computers, where there is a 
dedicated head node. These scripts help launch, monitor, and terminate
jug on all of the slave nodes. They should be used with caution, as they
are not heavily tested and may need to be modified for your setup. 

Terms used in this document
---------------------------

head node
  Computer that does not perform heavy computation locally. Instead it is
  in charge of managing and monitoring jug on other computers
slave/client
  Interchangable terms for this doc. Computers that are connected to the 
  head node (typically via an SSH connection) and will be performing 
  computation. 
jug instance / jug executor
  A single jug process, typically running on a slave computer

What scripts are available? 
---------------------------
jug
  The normal jug executable
jugrun
  Starts jug executables on non-head machines. The number of executables
  started on each client machine should be configured to match the 
  hardware of each client machine e.g. for 12 hardware threads, it may
  be reasonable to run 10 instances of jug
jugstatus
  Monitors jug execution by occasionally calling 'jug status'
jughalt
  Stops all jug executors on all slave computers
juglog
  Outputs a log of jug run/halt/stop commands
jugoutput
  If your jug tasks print to stdout or stderr, this collects all 
  of that content from each remote machine ane prints it out. 
  Note that this command will likely need to be configured for 
  your computer

Installing these scripts
------------------------

You need to 1) create an alias for all of the jug* commands in your
.bash_profile 2) create a workers.iplist file and 3) create a 
.waitonjug executable and 4) create a run_workers.sh script. 

All of these are covered here. Also note, these scripts require 
pssh

**Creating command aliases**

::
  local ~$ ssh myserver
  myserver ~$ nano .bash_profile
  # Nano opens a text editor and I paste the following at 
  # the top (minus the hash signs) 
  #
  #alias pssh='pssh -i -h workers.iplist '
  #alias jugstatus='watch -n 10 -d jug status --cache benchmark_jug.py'
  #alias jugrun='echo "`date`: Start" >> .juglog; screen -d -m -S jugwatcher sh ~/.waitonjug; pssh screen -d -S jug -m sh run_workers.sh'
  #alias jugoutput='pssh cat /mnt/localhd/.jug*'
  #alias jughalt='echo "`date`: Halt ">> .juglog; screen -S jugwatcher -X quit;  pssh pkill jug;'
  #alias juglog='cat ~/.juglog'
  #
  # Now we need to tell the server to 'reload' .bash_profile 
  myserver ~$ source .bash_profile
  # Now type 'jug' and hit tab a few times to see the following
  myserver ~$ jug
  jug    jughalt    juglog     jugoutput  jugrun     jugstatus  

**Creating workers.iplist**
This is pretty simple, just create a file called workers.iplist and 
insert something like this to identify all of your slave computers

::
  10.0.2.2
  10.0.2.4
  10.0.2.5
  10.0.2.6
  10.0.2.7


**Creating .waitonjug executable**
Create a new file called .waitonjug and insert the following

::
 #!/bin/sh

 echo "Waiting..."
 jug sleep-until benchmark_jug.py
 echo "`date`: Completed" >> ~/.juglog
 echo "Complete, returning"

Then save the file and make it executable by typing `chmod a+x .waitonjug`. 

**Creating run_workers.sh**
Create a new file called run_workers.sh and paste the following, 
but *be sure to modify the script!* There are a few things to 
modify: the number of workers, the name of your jug python code, 
and where to send the output. 

Number of Workers: This script assumes that all slave machines can run 
the same number of jug processes without being overloaded. I would 
generally recommend setting the number of 
jug processes to be slightly lower than the total number of hardware
threads your slave machine can support. For example, each of my 
slave machines has 12 hardware threads (6 cores, 2 threads each), 
so I've set to run 10 jug processes per slave machine. 

Name of script: Below, the name of my jug script is benchmark_jug.py. 
Yours is likely different, so please update

Output redirection: I'm outputing stdout and stderr /mnt/localhd . If 
your jug tasks do not use stdout or stderr, then perhaps just do 
`jug execute <my_jug>.py &> /dev/null &` to redirect everything to 
/dev/null. If you actually want output, make sure that the directory 
you're using for output (in my case /mnt/localhd) is NOT shared by NFS, 
or your workers on different machines will be overwriting the same 
file. Or be a boss and upgrade this script to read in the hostname ;-)

::

    #!/bin/sh

    JUG_PROCESSES_PER_WORKER=10

    rm /mnt/localhd/.jug*
    for i in {1..${JUG_PROCESSES_PER_WORKER}}
    do
        jug execute benchmark_jug.py > /mnt/localhd/.jug$i.out 2> /mnt/localhd/.jug$i.err &
    done
    wait

After creating run_workers.sh, don't forget to make it 
executable using `chmod a+x run_workers.sh`

Understanding the scripts
-------------------------

**pssh**
Pssh is required for all of these scripts. It allows me to 
broadcast one command to multiple computers and receive the 
reply. It makes an ssh connection to each computer, executes
the command, and aggregates the replies. Pssh is what reads 
in the workers.iplist

**jugstatus**
This uses the watch command to call 'jug status' every ten seconds

**jugrun**
*This will likely need to be modified minorly for your use. See
'installation' section above.*
This first posts log entry, then sets up what I call a 'watcher',
which is a tiny executable that runs in the background on the host
computer (actually, it runs inside of a detached screen session)
and waits on jug to complete the 'jugrun' command. If you peek
inside the .waitonjug code you will see that this 'wait on jug' 
logic is nothing more than 1) use jug's sleep-until 2) create 
log message indicating that the job is complete. 

The actual business logic of jugrun is to use pssh to tell each
slave computer to execute the run_workers.sh script. The 
run_workers script runs on each slave computer, and launches 
all the instances of jug. It also waits on them to be terminated
(e.g. killed by either jug completing or a call to jughalt). It
waits because if the script terminates before the child processes
(e.g. the instances of jug) then bad things will happen

**jughalt**
Creates a log message about halting, terminates the .waitonjug 
detached screen so that we don't have anyone waiting for the 
job to complete, and then uses pssh to issue a command to all 
slave machines to kill all jug processes. The pkill command is 
used to automatically find and kill and processes names *jug*. 
Once the jug processes die then the run_worker.sh scripts will 
automatically terminate

**juglog**
Outputs the contents of the log file from the run/halt/complete. 
Simple file, can be used with other options e.g. `tail -f ~/.juglog`

**jugoutput**
*This will likely need to be modified for your use.* In my setup, 
all files under /home/myuser/ are shared via NFS. This means that 
any output files placed in my home directory can have problems as 
multiple jug processes are writing to the same file and NFS is 
trying to share that file across multiple machines. My solution was
to output jug-process-specific files into a directory that is not
shared by NFS, specifically /mnt/localhd on each computer. The 
jugoutput command uses pssh to collect all of these log files
and print them to me on the head node. Useful for monitoring 
progress of individual jug tasks e.g. a particularly long running
method call.
