docs/source/index.rst, before:

===========================================
Jug: A Task-Based Parallelization Framework
===========================================

What is Jug?
------------

Jug allows you to write code that is broken up into tasks and run different
tasks on different processors.

It currently has two backends. The first uses the filesystem to communicate
between processes and works correctly over NFS, so you can coordinate processes
on different machines. The second is based on redis so the processes only need
the capability to connect to a common redis server.

Jug also takes care of saving all the intermediate results to the backend in a
way that allows them to be retrieved later.


Documentation Contents
----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    tutorial.rst
    decrypt-example.rst
    text-example.rst
    subcommands.rst
    types.rst
    tasks.rst
    tasklets.rst
    idioms.rst
    barrier.rst
    compound.rst
    utilities.rst
    backends.rst
    configuration.rst
    faq.rst
    why.rst
    api.rst

Examples
--------

Short Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is a one minute example. Save the following to a file called ``primes.py``::

    from jug import TaskGenerator
    from time import sleep

    @TaskGenerator
    def is_prime(n):
        sleep(1.)
        for j in xrange(2,n-1):
            if (n % j) == 0:
                return False
        return True

    primes100 = map(is_prime, xrange(2,101))

Of course, this is only for didactical purposes, normally you would use a
better method. Similarly, the ``sleep`` function is so that it does not run too
fast.

Now type ``jug status primes.py`` to get::

    Task name                     Waiting       Ready    Finished     Running
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    primes.is_prime                     0          99           0           0
    .........................................................................
    Total:                              0          99           0           0


This tells you that you have 99 tasks called ``primes.is_prime`` ready to run.
So run ``jug execute primes.py &``. You can even run multiple instances in the
background (if you have multiple cores, for example). After starting 4
instances and waiting a few seconds, you can check the status again (with ``jug
status primes.py``)::

    Task name                     Waiting       Ready    Finished     Running
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    primes.is_prime                     0          63          32           4
    .........................................................................
    Total:                              0          63          32           4


Now you have 32 tasks finished, 4 running, and 63 still ready. Eventually, they
will all finish and you can inspect the results with ``jug shell primes.py``.
This will give you an ``ipython`` shell. The `primes100` variable is available,
but it is an ugly list of `jug.Task` objects. To get the actual value, you call
the `value` function::

    In [1]: primes100 = value(primes100)

    In [2]: primes100[:10]
    Out[2]: [True, True, False, True, False, True, False, False, False, True]

More Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a worked out example in the `tutorial`_, and another, fully functioning in
the `examples/` directory.

Links
-----

- `Mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/jug-users>`__
- `Github <http://github.com/luispedro/jug>`__
- `Freshmeat <http://freshmeat.net/projects/jug>`__
- `Documentation <http://packages.python.org/Jug/>`__
- `Homepage <http://luispedro.org/software/jug>`__

How do I get Jug?
-----------------

You can either get the git repository at

`http://github.com/luispedro/jug <http://github.com/luispedro/jug>`__

Or download the package from PyPI_. You can use `easy_instal jug` or `pip
install jug` if you'd like.

.. _PyPI: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Jug


What's New
----------

version **0.7.4**:
- Fix case where ~/.jug/configrc does not exist
- Print host name to lock file on file_store
- Refactored implementation of options
- Fix unloading tasks that have not run
- Fix mapreduce for empty input

Version **0.7.3**:
- Parse ~/.jug/configrc
- Fix bug with waiting times
- Special case saving of numpy arrays
- Add more expressive jugdir syntax
- Save dict_store backend to disk

Version **0.7.2**:
- included missing files in the distribution

Version **0.7.1**:
- ``sleep-until`` subcommand
- bugfixes

Version **0.7 (starting with 0.6.9 in testing)**:
- `barrier()`
- better ``shell`` command

What do I need to run Jug?
---------------------------

It is a Python only package. I have tested it with Python 2.5 and 2.6.
I do not expect Python 2.4 or earlier to work (this is not a priority).
Python 3.0 will not work either (this is expected to change in the 
future---patches are welcome).

How does it work?
-----------------

Read the tutorial_.

.. _tutorial: tutorial.html

What's the status of the project?
---------------------------------

Beta (or thereabouts).

This is still in development and APIs are not fixed, but are in less flux than
they were earlier in the project and it is very usable.

It is usable, though. I have used it for my academic projects for the past two
years and wouldn't now start any other project without using ``jug``. It's
become a major part of the way I handle projects with a large number of
computations and cluster usage.


Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`

Commit message:

BLD Prepare new release
0.8 Beta 0

Introduces Tasklets

docs/source/index.rst, after:

===========================================
Jug: A Task-Based Parallelization Framework
===========================================

What is Jug?
------------

Jug allows you to write code that is broken up into tasks and run different
tasks on different processors.

It currently has two backends. The first uses the filesystem to communicate
between processes and works correctly over NFS, so you can coordinate processes
on different machines. The second is based on redis so the processes only need
the capability to connect to a common redis server.

Jug also takes care of saving all the intermediate results to the backend in a
way that allows them to be retrieved later.


Documentation Contents
----------------------

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    tutorial.rst
    decrypt-example.rst
    text-example.rst
    subcommands.rst
    types.rst
    tasks.rst
    tasklets.rst
    idioms.rst
    barrier.rst
    compound.rst
    utilities.rst
    backends.rst
    configuration.rst
    faq.rst
    why.rst
    api.rst

Examples
--------

Short Example
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Here is a one minute example. Save the following to a file called ``primes.py``::

    from jug import TaskGenerator
    from time import sleep

    @TaskGenerator
    def is_prime(n):
        sleep(1.)
        for j in xrange(2,n-1):
            if (n % j) == 0:
                return False
        return True

    primes100 = map(is_prime, xrange(2,101))

Of course, this is only for didactical purposes, normally you would use a
better method. Similarly, the ``sleep`` function is so that it does not run too
fast.

Now type ``jug status primes.py`` to get::

    Task name                     Waiting       Ready    Finished     Running
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    primes.is_prime                     0          99           0           0
    .........................................................................
    Total:                              0          99           0           0


This tells you that you have 99 tasks called ``primes.is_prime`` ready to run.
So run ``jug execute primes.py &``. You can even run multiple instances in the
background (if you have multiple cores, for example). After starting 4
instances and waiting a few seconds, you can check the status again (with ``jug
status primes.py``)::

    Task name                     Waiting       Ready    Finished     Running
    -------------------------------------------------------------------------
    primes.is_prime                     0          63          32           4
    .........................................................................
    Total:                              0          63          32           4


Now you have 32 tasks finished, 4 running, and 63 still ready. Eventually, they
will all finish and you can inspect the results with ``jug shell primes.py``.
This will give you an ``ipython`` shell. The `primes100` variable is available,
but it is an ugly list of `jug.Task` objects. To get the actual value, you call
the `value` function::

    In [1]: primes100 = value(primes100)

    In [2]: primes100[:10]
    Out[2]: [True, True, False, True, False, True, False, False, False, True]

More Examples
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is a worked out example in the `tutorial`_, and another, fully functioning in
the `examples/` directory.

Links
-----

- `Mailing list <http://groups.google.com/group/jug-users>`__
- `Github <http://github.com/luispedro/jug>`__
- `Freshmeat <http://freshmeat.net/projects/jug>`__
- `Documentation <http://packages.python.org/Jug/>`__
- `Homepage <http://luispedro.org/software/jug>`__

How do I get Jug?
-----------------

You can either get the git repository at

`http://github.com/luispedro/jug <http://github.com/luispedro/jug>`__

Or download the package from PyPI_. You can use `easy_instal jug` or `pip
install jug` if you'd like.

.. _PyPI: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/Jug


What's New
----------

version **0.8**:
- Tasklets
- Fix bugs in sleep-until and cleanup

version **0.7.4**:
- Fix case where ~/.jug/configrc does not exist
- Print host name to lock file on file_store
- Refactored implementation of options
- Fix unloading tasks that have not run
- Fix mapreduce for empty input

Version **0.7.3**:
- Parse ~/.jug/configrc
- Fix bug with waiting times
- Special case saving of numpy arrays
- Add more expressive jugdir syntax
- Save dict_store backend to disk

Version **0.7.2**:
- included missing files in the distribution

Version **0.7.1**:
- ``sleep-until`` subcommand
- bugfixes

Version **0.7 (starting with 0.6.9 in testing)**:
- `barrier()`
- better ``shell`` command

What do I need to run Jug?
---------------------------

It is a Python only package. I have tested it with Python 2.5 and 2.6.
I do not expect Python 2.4 or earlier to work (this is not a priority).
Python 3.0 will not work either (this is expected to change in the 
future---patches are welcome).

How does it work?
-----------------

Read the tutorial_.

.. _tutorial: tutorial.html

What's the status of the project?
---------------------------------

Beta (or thereabouts).

This is still in development and APIs are not fixed, but are in less flux than
they were earlier in the project and it is very usable.

It is usable, though. I have used it for my academic projects for the past two
years and wouldn't now start any other project without using ``jug``. It's
become a major part of the way I handle projects with a large number of
computations and cluster usage.


Indices and tables
------------------

* :ref:`genindex`
* :ref:`modindex`
* :ref:`search`
