docs/source/utilities.rst, before:

=========
Utilities
=========

The module ``jug.utils`` has a few functions which are meant to be used in
writing jugfiles.

Identity
--------

This is simply implemented as::

    @TaskGenerator
    def identity(x):
        return x

This might seem like the most pointless function, but it can be helpful in
speeding things up. Consider the following case::

    from glob import glob

    def load(fname):
       return open(fname).readlines()

    @TaskGenerator
    def process(inputs, parameter):
        ...

    inputs = []
    for f in glob('*.data'):
        inputs.extend(load(f))
    # inputs is a large list

    results = {}
    for p in range(1000):
        results[p] = process(inputs, p)

How is this processed? Every time ``process`` is called, a new ``jug.Task`` is
generated. This task has two arguments: ``inputs`` and an integer. When the hash
of the task is computed, both its arguments are analysed. ``inputs`` is a large
list of strings. Therefore, it is going to take a very long time to process all
of the hashes.

Consider the variation::

    from jug.utils import identity

    # ...
    # same as above

    inputs = identity(inputs)
    results = {}
    for p in range(1000):
        results[p] = process(inputs, p)

Now, the long list is only hashed once! It is transformed into a ``Task`` (we
reuse the name ``inputs`` to keep things clear) and each ``process`` call can
now compute its hash very fast.

Using ``identity`` to induce dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``identity`` can also be used to introduce dependencies. One can define a
helper function::

    def value_after(val, token):
        from jug.utils import identity
        return identity( [val, token] )[0]

Now, this function, will always return its first argument, but will only run
once its second argument is available. Here is a typical use case:

1. Function ``process`` takes an output file name
2. Function ``postprocess`` takes as input the output filename of ``process``

Now, you want to run ``process`` and **then** ``postprocess``, but since
communication is done with files, Jug does not see that these functions depend
on each other. ``value_after`` is the solution::

    token = process(input, ofile='output.txt')
    postprocess(value_after('output.txt', token))

This works independently of whatever ``process`` returns (even if it is
``None``).

jug_execute
-----------

This is a simple wrapper around ``subprocess.call()``. It adds two important
pieces of functionality:

1. it checks the exit code and raises an exception if not zero (this can be
   disabled by passing ``check_exit=False``).
2. It takes an argument called ``run_after`` which is ignored but can be used
   to declare dependencies between tasks. Thus, it can be used to ensure that a
   specific process only runs after something else has run::

    from jug.utils import jug_execute
    from jug import TaskGenerator

    @TaskGenerator
    def my_computation(input, ouput_filename):
        ...

    token = my_computation(input, 'output.txt')
    # We want to run gzip, but **only after** `my_computation` has run:
    jug_execute(['gzip', 'output.txt'], run_after=token)


cached_glob
-----------


``cached_glob`` is a simple utility to perform the following common operation::

    from glob import glob
    from jug import CachedFunction
    files = CachedFunction(glob, pattern)
    files.sort()

Where ``pattern`` is a glob pattern can be simply written as::

    from jug.utils import cached_glob
    files = cached_glob(pattern)



.. automodule:: jug.utils
    :members:

Commit message:

ENH Add UnsafeNoHash
This is useful to define mark nuisance arguments are not triggering an
invalidation.

docs/source/utilities.rst, after:

=========
Utilities
=========

The module ``jug.utils`` has a few functions which are meant to be used in
writing jugfiles.

Identity
--------

This is simply implemented as::

    @TaskGenerator
    def identity(x):
        return x

This might seem like the most pointless function, but it can be helpful in
speeding things up. Consider the following case::

    from glob import glob

    def load(fname):
       return open(fname).readlines()

    @TaskGenerator
    def process(inputs, parameter):
        ...

    inputs = []
    for f in glob('*.data'):
        inputs.extend(load(f))
    # inputs is a large list

    results = {}
    for p in range(1000):
        results[p] = process(inputs, p)

How is this processed? Every time ``process`` is called, a new ``jug.Task`` is
generated. This task has two arguments: ``inputs`` and an integer. When the hash
of the task is computed, both its arguments are analysed. ``inputs`` is a large
list of strings. Therefore, it is going to take a very long time to process all
of the hashes.

Consider the variation::

    from jug.utils import identity

    # ...
    # same as above

    inputs = identity(inputs)
    results = {}
    for p in range(1000):
        results[p] = process(inputs, p)

Now, the long list is only hashed once! It is transformed into a ``Task`` (we
reuse the name ``inputs`` to keep things clear) and each ``process`` call can
now compute its hash very fast.

Using ``identity`` to induce dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

``identity`` can also be used to introduce dependencies. One can define a
helper function::

    def value_after(val, token):
        from jug.utils import identity
        return identity( [val, token] )[0]

Now, this function, will always return its first argument, but will only run
once its second argument is available. Here is a typical use case:

1. Function ``process`` takes an output file name
2. Function ``postprocess`` takes as input the output filename of ``process``

Now, you want to run ``process`` and **then** ``postprocess``, but since
communication is done with files, Jug does not see that these functions depend
on each other. ``value_after`` is the solution::

    token = process(input, ofile='output.txt')
    postprocess(value_after('output.txt', token))

This works independently of whatever ``process`` returns (even if it is
``None``).

jug_execute
-----------

This is a simple wrapper around ``subprocess.call()``. It adds two important
pieces of functionality:

1. it checks the exit code and raises an exception if not zero (this can be
   disabled by passing ``check_exit=False``).
2. It takes an argument called ``run_after`` which is ignored but can be used
   to declare dependencies between tasks. Thus, it can be used to ensure that a
   specific process only runs after something else has run::

    from jug.utils import jug_execute
    from jug import TaskGenerator

    @TaskGenerator
    def my_computation(input, ouput_filename):
        ...

    token = my_computation(input, 'output.txt')
    # We want to run gzip, but **only after** `my_computation` has run:
    jug_execute(['gzip', 'output.txt'], run_after=token)


cached_glob
-----------


``cached_glob`` is a simple utility to perform the following common operation::

    from glob import glob
    from jug import CachedFunction
    files = CachedFunction(glob, pattern)
    files.sort()

Where ``pattern`` is a glob pattern can be simply written as::

    from jug.utils import cached_glob
    files = cached_glob(pattern)



UnsafeNoHash
------------

This marks certain arguments to Tasks as not being part of the hash that
defines the results. It can be useful for arguments that do not change the
results, but nonetheless need to be passsed to functions.

Example usage::

    jug_execute(['SemiBin2', 'single_easy_bin',
                    '--cpus', UnsafeNoHash('8'),
                    '-i', 'input/contigs.fna.gz',
                    '--bam', 'input/mapped.bam',
                    '--output', 'output'
                    ])


.. automodule:: jug.utils
    :members:
